# Sample puzzles

Most of these puzzles are taken from the Sadman Sudoku site, and all are in the Sadman Sudoku .sdk format.  Additional sample files are available at 
http://www.sadmansoftware.com/sudoku/solvingtechniques.php under particular solving techniques.  

evil.sdk, which is designed to require backtrack search, was generated by https://www.websudoku.com/?level=4 .  It does not seem to be any more evil than the Sadman Sudoku example files. 

## Tiny examples

Most of the files are complete puzzles, but two are small examples that are useful in testing. 

naked_single_example.sdk is the illustration of a single inference using the naked single tactic.  It starts as 
```
.........
......1..
......7..
......29.
........4
.83......
......5..
.........
.........
```
and after solving with constraint propagation alone you should have 

```
.........
......1..
......7..
......29.
........4
.83...6..
......5..
.........
.........
```
(If you use backtracking, you will get *a* solution, but it is not a unique solution.) 

Similarly, hidding_single_example.sdk is 

```
.........
...2.....
.........
....6....
.........
....8....
.........
.........
.....2...
```
from which you should be able to infer one tile using constraint propagation alone: 
```
.........
...2.....
.........
....6....
....2....
....8....
.........
.........
.....2...
```

All other provided examples have a unique solution. nakedsingle1.sdk can be solved using only the naked single tactic, and those named nakedhiddensingleN.sdk for N=2,3,4,5 can be solved using a combination of naked single and hidden single.  The forcingchain1.sdk and forcingchain2.sdk could be solved by a technique called *forcing chain*, as you might surmise, but that is essentially a limited version of backtrack searching; we will solve it with search.  evil.sdk is designed to require backtrack search.  veryhard.sdk is another board found online which was supposedly rated very hard, and which requires backtracking. 